Using R for Data Science
================
Dane Korver
2022-07-13

## Using R for Data Science

In my class that I am taking this Summer, we’ve been learning to use R.
At the start of the Summer, we learned how to use R to scrape data via
an API, reading it in from a file, and then cleaning it for analysis.
We’ve learned how to use Github as a portal for communicating with other
programmers as a version control tool and also to write this blog! Most
recently, we were learning to use R to model our data using either
simple linear regression, multiple linear regression and tree-based
methods. Then we wrapped up the semester learning about R Shiny. After
learning how to use R this Summer to help fine tune my skills, I will
definitely using R more in practice now that I have a better
understanding of the “ins and outs” of the language. I’ve taken an R
class in the past and have used it some “on the job,” but this class has
really helped me how to write R functions. For some reason, it wasn’t
until I took this class where writing R functions finally ‘clicked.’ I
find R sometimes easier to use than SAS in some areas. I still struggle
to use R for data management, but enjoy using it to double check some
SAS procedures and for creating graphs. If there are things that I am
going to do differently after taking this class, it is to push myself to
create more graphs in R instead of SAS. Creating graphs in SAS can get
cumbersome at times. I highly recommend others to take ST 558 at NC
State as it really helped me fine-tune my R skills. Now its time to take
a breather before embarking on my next statistics course, ST 502.
